<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_gtr_h4r_rjb">
    <title>Kitchen safety</title>
    <shortdesc>Make sure you stay safe in the kitchen</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>Kitchen safty is paramount. Please follow all the following safety tips. </p>
        <hazardstatement id="knives">
      <messagepanel>
          <typeofhazard >Knives</typeofhazard>
          <howtoavoid>Store knives in a wooden block or in a drawer. Make sure the knives are out of the reach of children. Follow these knife safety tips to prevent injury.</howtoavoid>
      </messagepanel>
  </hazardstatement>  
        <hazardstatement id="clothing">
            <messagepanel>
                <typeofhazard>Clothing</typeofhazard>
                <howtoavoid>Never cook in loose clothes and keep long hair tied back. You don’t want anything accidentally catching fire (not to mention hair ending up in the food!).</howtoavoid>
            </messagepanel>
        </hazardstatement>
        <hazardstatement id="jewellery">
            <messagepanel>
                <typeofhazard>Jewellery</typeofhazard>
                <howtoavoid>Never cook while wearing dangling jewelry. A bracelet can get tangled around pot handles.</howtoavoid>
            </messagepanel>
        </hazardstatement>
        <hazardstatement id="potholders">
            <messagepanel>
                <typeofhazard>Potholders</typeofhazard>
                <howtoavoid>Keep potholders nearby and use them! Be careful not to leave them near an open flame.</howtoavoid>
            </messagepanel>
        </hazardstatement>
        <hazardstatement id="pot_handles">
            <messagepanel>
                <typeofhazard>Pot handles</typeofhazard>
                <howtoavoid>Turn pot handles away from the front of the stove. Children can’t grab them, and adults can’t bump into them if they’re out of the way.</howtoavoid>
            </messagepanel>
        </hazardstatement>
        <hazardstatement id="contamination">
            <messagepanel>
                <typeofhazard>Contamination</typeofhazard>
                <howtoavoid>Don’t let temperature-sensitive foods sit out in the kitchen. Raw meat, fish, and certain dairy products can spoil quickly, so refrigerate or freeze them right away.</howtoavoid>
            </messagepanel>
        </hazardstatement>
        <hazardstatement id="spills">
            <messagepanel>
                <typeofhazard>Spills</typeofhazard>
                <howtoavoid>Wipe up spills immediately. Keep the floor dry so that no one slips and falls.</howtoavoid>
            </messagepanel>
        </hazardstatement>
        <hazardstatement id="raw_meat">
            <messagepanel>
                <typeofhazard>Raw meat</typeofhazard>
                <howtoavoid>Separate raw meat and poultry from other items whenever you use or store them. This precaution avoids cross-contamination of harmful bacteria from one food to another.</howtoavoid>
            </messagepanel>
        </hazardstatement>
        <hazardstatement>
            <messagepanel>
                <typeofhazard conkeyref="hygeine">Hygeine</typeofhazard>
                <howtoavoid>Wash your hands before handling food and after handling meat or poultry. Hands can be a virtual freight train of bacteria.</howtoavoid>
            </messagepanel>
        </hazardstatement>
        
    </conbody>
    
</concept>
